Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   Greatness...
It's a combination of things.
You look back
and you say. "Well...
someone gave me an ability
to do something
better than others."
You have to recognize that...
and put yourself
on the line...
Shut up!
...especially when you're
out there by yourself...
and I didn't do
a good enough job of that.
In fact.
I did a shitty job of it.
I'm the greatest player
that's ever played.
At this point.
why does it not feel
that amazing?
It felt like I was doomed.
[rock music playing]
[man]   He's supposed
to be John McEnroe.
And if that on occasion
is going to rile somebody
or him or me.
well. that's the way it is.
[McEnroe]
I'm always gonna fight
for what I think's right.
That's the way
I was brought up.
[man]   I think John
is the sort of boy
who can speak up for himself
and I like this.
You doing your job umpire?
[man]   And I don't think
the docile
kid is ever gonna be
the champion.
[Bud]   Nice guys
don't win at this game.
It's a sport for killers.
[man]   He's on the court
playing to win.
[McEnroe]   Answer my question!
The question. jerk!
You're pathetic.
do you know that?
I don't ever remember not
being able to play tennis.
I only remember
knowing how to play.
[car revving]
[McEnroe]
You're always thinking
what's the other guy thinking?
'Cause you wanna get
in his head
and sort of blow it all up.
Get him doubting himself
then you're trying
to find a way in
to find his weaknesses
and he's trying to find
that same thing with you and...
you're probing
and you're looking for an edge.
And you sort of do that
in life also.
I mean. I think tennis...
it's a pretty true
microcosm of life.
ultimately.
if you can handle it.
[Patty]   People think
they know him
and they don't know him.
One time. his mom
handed me a piece of paper
and it was John's report card
from first or second grade.
"John is too hard on himself."
John wasn't satisfied
with his A minus...
and she said. "Look...
this is how he's always been."
[McEnroe]   If you believe
in things happening
for a reason...
I was meant to play tennis.
When I first started to play
at my local club.
which was a block
from my house.
I didn't want to be
a tennis player.
It didn't seem to be that cool
until all of a sudden
there was a big.
abrupt change.
[upbeat music playing]
[man]   Tennis is the country's
fastest growing sport.
indoors or out. night or day.
Americans have adopted tennis
as a national pastime.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   It seemed like
a phenomenal time.
This thing is exploding
and we got these characters.
My name is Vitas Gerulaitis.
That was a goddamn foot
over the fucking line!
[McEnroe]   Personality...
[man]   Ille Nastase.
the least loved
tennis player in the world.
The fact is that
you're a vulgar man...
[man]   Jimmy Connors.
the King of tennis.
[man]   Typical arrogant.
petulant...
[man]   When a player masturbates
a racquet on the court.
that's not sitting
in a church on Sunday.
[man]   Bjorn Borg
has the electric appeal
of a modern rock star.
[engine revving]
[McEnroe]
These are borderline idols.
I thought it was awesome.
[screams]
What do you want
with these guys?
I mean. you fucking guys
are grabbing the shit
out of people.
[man]   Why is this behavior
allowed to go on?
It's because tennis
has become big business.
-[crowd cheering]
-[Dan]   And that's it.
Sweden's national hero.
Bjorn Borg.
has won Wimbledon
at the age of 20 years
and 27 days.
[camera shutter clicking]
[McEnroe]   Bjorn Borg...
I thought he was amazing.
Just the aura of him.
The way he played.
the way he looked.
the way he acted.
Oh. yeah.
[McEnroe]
He was like a Viking God.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   When I saw
these girls screaming
outside the locker room...
It was like the closest thing
I'd ever seen to
when   The Beatles
came to the States.
It was like Borg-mania.
And I'm thinking. in tennis?
This guy is the coolest guy
in the world to me.
Oh. my God!
I wanna be a tennis player.
I thought Douglaston
was terrible.
It got way better. way better.
after I went to Wimbledon.
That changed my life.
One of the biggest
and more pleasant surprises
of the first week of Wimbledon
has been the performance
of 18-year-old John McEnroe
from New York City.
John. how does it feel
being in the quarter finals
at Wimbledon?
Well. I wasn't even thinking
about winning any rounds here.
I was just--I played
the qualifying in Roehampton
and I. uh--I just was hoping
to get in to the tournament
and do the best I can.
And now I'm in the quarters.
I don't know what to think
at this point.
[applause]
[Billie Jean]
Greatness comes in potential
and that is God given.
In '77.
Mary Carillo at Wimbledon
ran up to me and she says.
"I want you to come and see
this guy. John McEnroe.
What do you think?
What do you think?"
I looked at his body
and I thought.
"God. he doesn't have
a lot of muscle.
But his timing
and his variety of shots.
whoa!"
[commentator] Oh. my word!
[cheers and applause]
[Billie Jean]   Who is this kid?
-[man] Fault!
-Oh. no! Oh. come on!
[McEnroe]   My patience was
very thin
especially when I was
younger.
You're quite sure?
-Seven all.
-Oh!
The ball was so far in.
-You see it in?
-[umpire] Mister McEnroe...
[McEnroe]   The culture shock
was the way everyone acted.
They were so proper.
[commentator]
Whether he has a right
to make such a fuss
is debatable.
[McEnroe]   It was like
an alien country to me.
-Yeah!
-[commentator] He's done it!
[reporter]   England's
Wimbledon tennis tournament
has an upset hero
in its hundredth year.
He's 18-year-old.
John McEnroe of New York
who became
Wimbledon's first player
to come through
the qualifying competition
to reach
the Men's Semifinals.
[rock music playing]
[McEnroe]   I'm in the semis
and all of a sudden
I'm with Gerulaitis. Borg.
and Connors.
I'm like. "What?
Are you kidding me. I'm gonna
be around these guys?
How did this happen?"
[cheers and applause]
[McEnroe]   I was petrified
when I played Connors.
My legs were shaking.
"No. sir. like Mr. Connors.
nice to meet you."
And he just
blew me off completely.
Why is this guy
such an asshole?
He won't even acknowledge
my existence.
Treating me
like absolute shit.
He probably saw
that I was gonna be
an obstacle for him.
But he's one of the greatest
competitors ever.
[applause]
[McEnroe]   No question.
[commentator]
Game. set. match to Connors.
[McEnroe]
The effort that he gave.
the intensity...
I wanna try to get to that.
[man]   Mr. McEnroe. you started
your son playing tennis.
Did you expect it
to end up this way?
[Patrick]   Well. we joined
this little club
just a few minutes
from where we live at home.
I beat John consistently
from eight until he was ten.
-And that was the end of it?
-That was the end of it.
[Patrick]   My dad and John
were very similar...
in a lot of ways.
Very intense.
very driven.
Both of them lash out.
He was ambitious. you know.
he came from nothing. um.
so he was incredibly smart
and graduated from college
and from law school early.
We weren't poor. obviously.
but we weren't. you know.
living in a mansion
and taking trips in the summer.
We came here to the club
and played tennis.
There's no doubt
that John being the first
got disciplined the most.
My mom used to love
to tell the story that
when my dad came home
from Law School and said.
"Look. Kay. I finished second.
Who finished first?"
John had a little bit of that.
That singular drive
is partly what made John great
and also part of what--
you know. maybe got in the way.
[McEnroe]   If you liked
being around perfectionists.
this was the perfect family
to be around.
[chuckles]
When I was 12
and my dad was--
I felt like sort
all over me about. you know.
"You can be the best
in the 12 and unders!"
I'm like. "Dad. listen.
Let's take it easy."
"You gotta be number one
in your class. in your grades.
Whatever it is
we want you to excel at it."
[upbeat music playing]
[crowd cheering]
[Phil]   When you get
a colorful personality
and a great player.
it changes everything.
[camera shutter clicks]
[Phil]   When you talk
to one of the officials
and he says. "Stay away
from that hot head McEnroe."
[spectator] Say what
are you gonna do about it?
Aren't you the umpire?
[Phil]   We understood
those outbursts
and we didn't think
they were bad.
You ask this guy!
That ball was a foot out man!
[Phil]   We said keep it up.
[announcer]
From nearby Douglaston.
New York. John McEnroe.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   It was incredible
to go around the world
and make money and meet girls.
And I was working
my way up the rankings.
[BBC commentator]   Six singles
and fourteen doubles titles
won him
an astonishing $803.000
in just twelve months.
[interviewer]
What was it like to see
your first born go out there?
He's still a kid.
a teenager after all
and they say here's
for the United States.
John McEnroe.
What happens?
[McEnroe Sr.]   There's something
special about this.
to us at least.
It's the Davis Cup
and representing United States.
[McEnroe]   I know
my parents supported me.
but at the same time.
no matter what you do.
you gotta do more.
That's the harsh thing.
[cheers and applause]
[Mark]   He was opinionated
and my father was opinionated
so there was some
high decibel conversations.
My father was also
extremely smart
and thought he knew everything
about everything.
And John certainly thought
he knew everything
about everything.
Congratulations. Good.
-How did it go?
-Nice going.
-[McEnroe] Thanks for coming.
-[McEnroe Sr.] Yeah.
-Nice going!
-[Mrs. McEnroe] Oh. boy.
I hope the other ones
goes as well.
[McEnroe]   He was certainly
a character.
-Yeah.
-[Mrs. McEnroe] That's right.
And we're hoping. Enjoy...
[McEnroe]   And then at the stage
that I turned pro
became my manager.
[McEnroe Sr.] Well.
that's right. Sunday.
Well. what'll I do?
Like. will I move it
to two out of three?
He had my back! [chuckles]
I mean. he was charging me
by the hour!
-This is Stacey...
-Oh. Stacey. how are you?
Hello. how are you?
And you?
It took 24 hours
to do her hair do--
she's on the   Today Show   or...
[Stacey] It took me
an hour to do this.
[interviewer]   You're handling
his business affairs.
I understand.
[McEnroe Sr.]   Well. so far.
And I expect to remain that
but. uh. talking
to the other agents
who tell me
that it's a mistake
that I'm trying
to do it myself.
[interviewer]   Uh-huh.
[reporter]   It was the King
against the kid.
McEnroe faced the man
many consider the
World Champion of his game.
Jimmy Connors.
[Mark]   I always thought Connors
had a pretty big mouth
for a little guy.
But the first time
John ever beat him.
he just quit.
He had a way of
playing to the crowd
that a lot of people
don't appreciate
how full of it he was.
[McEnroe]   He's not even
gonna give me the satisfaction
of letting me win this match?
Yeah. everybody.
get down in front. shit.
[McEnroe]   This son of a bitch
is gonna do this?
[all moan]
[McEnroe]   I did learn from him.
[cheers and applause]
[McEnroe]   You gotta be
a bit of a prick out there.
[Patty]   There is no one else
on this planet like John.
He is a strange bird.
He is slightly.
might be on the spectrum.
There's something in there.
He likes his routine.
he's super good in math.
very heightened senses.
He doesn't notice some things
that I would think
would be obvious to notice.
But he has an incredible eye
for art.
I would think that
he's not that visual.
but he's very visual.
[Billie Jean]
What makes a person great.
whatever they do.
is when their head.
heart and guts
are totally integrated
and in the moment.
John's a natural talent.
He's so intense.
and he's a perfectionist.
In his head.
it's never good enough
and I feel exactly
the same way!
It's never good enough!
He's different.
I wanna get in his head.
How he thinks.
You have to take
what your hardwiring is
and use it.
John is hyper.
he's antsy.
he was born with that DNA
that's got the extra.
[McEnroe]   My style of play
worked with my personality.
Put pressure on guys.
See if they fold.
Maneuver the ball
not bludgeon it.
Finesse it
and slingshot it back.
[man]   He can take
the most powerful shot
and take the sting out of it.
like a shock absorber.
[Billie Jean]   He would always
try to go forward.
That's what great
net players do.
We're always looking
for the light.
[man]   What set John apart
was his hand/eye coordination.
His ability to just
hit the ball so early
and with very little swing.
[McEnroe]   I used to play
a lot of chess
when I was young
and it makes you think
strategically.
I see the court.
there's a hundred
different squares
and each time I move
lays out percentages.
That's gonna give me a 90%
chance of winning this point.
It's like a computer
going through your head.
Click and boom!
[upbeat music playing]
[McEnroe]
It's like a math equation.
I was good in math.
[Billie Jean]
The physicality of it.
that adds to the tension.
that adds to the stress.
putting out so much in a match
brings out the best in you...
[commentator]   Oh.
I say what a rally!
[Billie Jean]
...and the worst in you.
Pressure's privilege...
and champions adapt.
[Patty]   New York was a crazy
rough place...
but it was alive.
There were painters
and artists
and music
and coffee houses.
I loved the grit.
I miss the grit.
[crowd cheering]
[Patty]   And you couldn't not
be aware of John McEnroe.
They always show a clip
on the news of him
like throwing his racquet.
or yelling or something
so you'd see it
in the newsstand
and you either loved him
or hated him.
[McEnroe]   New York.
it's where I'm from.
[McEnroe]
But it's also who I am.
[commentator]   Wimbledon
is a tired old lady
giving you high tea
and a well-manicured lawn.
The American Championship
is Dolly Parton
giving you a hot dog and soda
out by the playground.
They're different
and they should be.
[crowd cheering]
[Jimbo]   The fans are crazy.
[umpire]
I'm telling you right now.
you play. or it's a game.
You have 30 seconds.
[Jimbo]   People were drunk and
throwing stuff on the court
and the umpire couldn't
make it through the match.
[umpire]
You're not talking to him.
you're supposed
to be playing tennis.
[Jimbo]   It was just a zoo.
[crowd booing]
[McEnroe]   Everyone's screaming
and yelling.
My dad said.
"Forget about the umpires.
You know.
you're better than them."
Game. set. match. McEnroe!
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   But he'd say like.
"Don't worry
about these people!
You're better than them!"
So to me.
that was totally normal.
I was ready.
-Yeah!
-[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   It was time
to win the US Open.
[reporter]   September the 9th.
the concluding day
of the US Open.
John McEnroe
and Vitas Gerulaitis
duel in the opening set.
[McEnroe]   I was playing Vitas.
Two kids from Queens
playing in the Finals.
This is incredible!
[man]   Even though Vitas was
an idol of his.
John didn't care.
He was gonna take him out
and he did.
-Yeah!
-[commentator] That's it!
[commentator] Game.
Set to McEnroe!
[McEnroe]   Growing up.
I gotta someday win
the US Open.
And then somehow that happens.
[cheers and applause]
[McEnroe]
Afterwards he said to me.
"What are you doing later?"
And I knew that
whatever he was doing
was a lot better than
what I was gonna be doing.
Let's go out and party!
[upbeat music playing]
[woman]
John wanted to be like Vitas.
He was peppy. he was social.
Everybody loved Vitas.
[McEnroe]   They rolled out
the red carpet for him
wherever he went.
Studio 54. there'd be lines
of hundreds of people.
He'd just walk right in.
He was four years older
than me.
Had the long hair.
Charismatic. Girls loved him.
Was a great player.
[interviewer]   How can you play
the kind of tennis you play
and do all the high living
night life they claim you do?
Well. it wouldn't be easy.
[McEnroe]   I'm this boring.
shy. straight kid.
Slowly but surely being thrust
into this other world
that was. like. beyond belief.
Everything about
what he was representing.
you'd be crazy
not to want to be like him.
A big reason I started
to play guitar was him.
The reason I got into art
and collecting
was because of him.
Well. then. who does he become
best friends with?
[upbeat music playing]
[McEnroe]   Bjorn Borg.
[singer]    Letting all those
Things go
Three-time champ meets
the four-time champ.
How you doing?
Good to see you.
[Borg]   I don't like
to be that exclusive.
But I don't like to go out
to buy boats or cars.
I'm not that kind of guy.
[Billie Jean]   Borg is a really
private person.
He's very shy and he likes
things calm around him.
But he was not calm.
He had fire in the belly
as much as anybody.
[commentator] That's it!
[man]   Even though
he is only 23 years old.
he has won four consecutive
Wimbledon tournaments.
He has won
so many major tournaments
all over the world.
Many people saying
that Bjorn Borg
may be the greatest
tennis player ever.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   Off the court.
we were more similar
than people realize.
But on the court.
we were total opposites.
[commentator] Oh. Borg is out.
That's as much emotion
as you'll ever see from Borg.
[McEnroe]   It's unheard
of to see a person
say absolutely nothing zero
on the court.
[commentator] Oh. you gotta
respect a guy like that.
How in God's name
is he doing that?
[indistinct chatter]
[McEnroe]   He was unstoppable.
If I wanted to be the best
in the world.
I gotta beat Bjorn Borg.
[reporter]   With Wimbledon
starting on Monday.
British tennis fans
will again have the chance
to see the player
they love to hate.
John McEnroe earned himself
the title of "SuperBrat"
in previous visits
to this country.
[man]   I don't like him myself
as it goes.
uh. 'cause just he's American.
He doesn't represent. uh.
America.
He is a disgrace to everyone.
[interviewer] Are you worried
at all about the reputation
you've gained over here?
People are writing
more about your behavior
than your tennis
perhaps sometimes.
Well. you're
certainly asking me
more about my behavior
than my tennis.
-But. uh--
-[interviewer] Do you think
it is justified
over this weekend?
Do I think it's justified?
[interviewer] The criticism.
No. I don't.
[indistinct chatter]
[McEnroe]   I felt like
I was being myself.
I didn't wanna be booed.
I wanted everyone
to clap for me.
[applause]
[McEnroe]   All right. just
keep yourself under control.
Just go play.
And then boom.
everything would go
out the window.
[grunts]
Don't do that.
Do not do that.
What are you.
a stupid fucking moron?
What... I aced him.
[umpire]   No. no. no.
The call came before
the ball was played.
He never even called it.
[umpire]   Well. no.
-Yes. he called--
-No. he never said anything.
[umpire]   Play a let. please.
[McEnroe] Could I have
the referee. please?
[umpire]   No. no. Play on.
Can I have the referee?
I'd like to have the referee.
I was crazed...
[suspenseful music playing]
[McEnroe]   Nervous energy
flying all over the place.
Intensity. anger.
[umpire] Mr. McEnroe.
you are getting
a public warning.
Now please. play on.
[McEnroe]   Mentally.
I became really good
at being able to
compartmentalize to a degree.
If you watch other players
in most sports.
if they go off the rails.
it's very difficult
to pull it back in.
-How was that?
-[umpire]   Game to McEnroe.
[McEnroe]   That was one
of the things
that I did better
than almost anyone else.
[Fleming]   I'm 99% certain
that John
had no idea when
an outburst was coming.
[Connors] Keep your mouth
shut out here.
[McEnroe] Referee. please.
[Fleming]   But maybe
it had been a part of him
for so long. that he knew
how to deal with it.
[commentator] Yeah!
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]
My father has given me
some of my temper so
he's to blame to some extent.
[interviewer]   So now that's
your reflection of your dad?
[McEnroe]   There's no way
you can avoid it.
[interviewer]
What have you done to cope
with John's temper on court?
[laughs] Oh. everything
you can possibly think of.
Essentially John is John and.
uh. tennis personalities
are just like the rest of us.
They run a great. wide gamut.
John happens to be
on one side of the coin...
and a fellow like
Bjorn Borg is on the other.
[McEnroe]   Finally got
to where I think
I should be and I'm playing
the guy I wanna play.
Like an idol.
You're about to walk out
on the greatest court
in tennis history.
[tense music playing]
Here I come.
[crowd cheering]
[commentator]   Amidst
those cheers. some boos.
McEnroe not the
most popular of players.
[McEnroe]   The difference
was pretty much everything.
He was more laid back.
He would counterattack.
With me. I'm coming in.
You know.
hell or high water. I'm coming.
All in.
First point.
I started great.
[commentator]   That's it.
That's the first set.
[crowd cheering]
[commentator]   We really do have
the classic confrontation here.
The best server in the world
against the best returner.
[crowd cheering]
[commentator]   The best volleyer
in the world
against the best
passing shots.
And the most volatile player
in the world
against the calmest.
[commentator]   Yes!
Second set to Borg.
[commentator]   He's terribly
intimidating to play
because he shows
no emotion whatsoever.
[commentator]   That winner
gives Borg the set of 6-3
and a lead
of two sets to one.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]
I just was furious at myself.
You can't go out like this.
[umpire]   Quiet. please.
[McEnroe]   That fear
of failure is in everybody.
-Come on!
-[BBC commentator]   Yes!
[US commentator]
John McEnroe has snatched
the Championship away
from Borg.
Just like that!
[crowd cheering]
[umpire]   Quiet. please.
The tie break now
comes into operation.
[BBC commentator]
No Final has ever ended
on a tie break.
but it might now.
[US commentator]   This is the
lingering death tiebreaker.
First to seven.
McEnroe serves
the first point.
[McEnroe grunts]
[US commentator]
Oh. shot McEnroe!
May have pulled the shoulder
out of the socket
stretching for that one!
John Patrick McEnroe Junior!
[BBC commentator]   And
that pass gives him set point.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   You're getting
bludgeoned emotionally.
[BBC commentator]
Nine all. then ten all.
John is close to tears.
his father can hardly look.
The calmest man in the place.
[McEnroe]   I gotta figure
out a way to win this thing.
[crowd cheering]
[BBC commentator]
What guts this youngster
has from New York.
Neither one will relent.
A seventh set point.
[crowd cheering]
[tense music playing]
[BBC commentator]
There goes... this match
is dead even.
in lingering death!
There will
be a fifth set to come!
[McEnroe]   I was on
such unbelievable high.
And he had to be on this lull.
This guy's gonna fold.
I got him.
[BBC commentator]   Yes!
[McEnroe]
Within a couple of games.
Oh. no. I don't have him.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   He acted
like nothing happened.
These great Champions
had this other gear
that I was unaware
even existed.
[BBC commentator]
Two more championship points.
[McEnroe]   He showed
willingness to suffer
and be able to get
through that type of pain.
[cheers and applause]
[McEnroe]
It was a harsh lesson.
What are you willing to do
in order to win it?
[dramatic music playing]
[kettle whistles]
[birds chirping]
[Borg]   The Champion should
handle the pressure very well.
The Champion should be able
to be strong mentally.
You're by yourself out there.
Tennis is a very lonely sport.
It's always been and
it's always gonna be.
You have to like that. I mean.
when you walk on that court
it's only you.
And. uh.
if you don't like that.
you're never
gonna be successful.
I loved it.
John loved it.
And we connected.
After the match.
he became a different person
in the media's eyes.
I mean. they respected John
so much more
from that particular moment.
He deserved that.
Number one is number one.
[chuckles]
Simple as that.
To be the best player
in the world.
That's what tennis player
wants to do.
That's your goals in life.
[McEnroe]
He took me under his wing.
It evolved into
a real friendship as well
as a great rivalry.
Bjorn inspired me
to get better.
work harder. dig deeper.
there's no way
I can break this guy down.
I gotta outplay the guy.
[dramatic music playing]
[Billie Jean]   Tennis is an art.
We are artists.
We're performers.
That is our stage. like
an actor going to a theater.
[US commentator]
You're looking down
on the sold out stadium court
on this the final day of play
of the 1980 United States
Open Championship.
[McEnroe]   Okay.
this is what you've just been
claiming you're gonna
learn from.
And here's your chance.
[crowd cheering]
[Billie Jean]   The artist
wants to connect with people.
[grunting]
You lazy bum!
[Billie Jean]   I wanna connect
with you as a performer.
as a competitor.
[crowd cheers]
[US commentator]
First set then goes
to McEnroe.
[Billie Jean]   As an artist.
we shape time.
[dramatic music playing]
[Billie Jean]   Also a real true
artist makes others feel.
[US commentator]
McEnroe has broken serve
and he leads two sets to love.
[Billie Jean]   He grabs
the hearts of people.
he just does.
You might not even like him.
But he makes you feel.
[crowd cheers]
[umpire]   Game and third set.
Borg 7-6.
[Billie Jean]   To have Borg
as a counterpoint...
not only does
it elevate tennis.
they both got better.
[dramatic music playing]
[umpire]   Game and fourth set
Borg 7-5.
[crowd cheering]
[Newcombe]   I'd hate to go
against Borg at this stage.
He hasn't lost a five
setter since 1974.
[McEnroe]   I'm actually finally
playing the way
I want to play.
[crowd cheers]
[McEnroe]   This isn't normal.
This is extraordinary.
[Borg]   I felt connection.
[dramatic music playing]
Was a special feeling.
[US commentator]
Fantastic play by John McEnroe!
[McEnroe]   It doesn't have to be
that you have win everything...
[US commentator]
Double match point.
[McEnroe] ...   to be part
of something that's magical.
[crowd cheers]
[McEnroe]
That's what you dream about.
[interviewer]   How much
did you win in the US Open?
What was the prize money?
[McEnroe]   About $46.000.
[interviewer] Did that give
you enough to go out and buy
-that expensive--
-[chuckles]
This is eight dollars!
I got a sale on it
so I figured I'd dress up
for the   Today Show.
[interviewer] We're really
appreciative of that.
We also want to tell you
the guy coming on right
after you. is Bjorn Borg.
Do you have anything you want
to say to him this morning?
Well. I'd first like
to say thanks
for letting me win and second
I'd like to say thanks
so I don't have to go
to Australia
and I'd third like to say...
[chuckles]
[McEnroe Sr.]   People have been
telling us for years
that John was
a marvelous talent.
I don't know
that we ever really conjured
that it would be
anything like it is.
[McEnroe]   He was always there.
believing I could do it.
He was in the Air Force.
He worked a couple of jobs
and he went
to Law School at night.
He was someone.
you know. liked to have
a couple of drinks.
but the good news
was that
when he started drinking
he was not the angry drunk.
He was a happy one.
Which was great
because then there's more
affection
because there wasn't like
an overwhelming
amount of affection.
It wasn't like I was
constantly being hugged
and told how wonderful
a person I was.
[McEnroe Sr.]   We were raising
what we thought
of as a solid citizen.
From early on
in John's career.
it was different than
just plain father and son.
It was legal advisor
and client.
[McEnroe]   He was
a great agent for me.
But I felt like there
was something missing.
I'm not very empathetic.
That's my biggest flaw.
I'm gonna blame it
on people when I grew up.
They said that you
have to keep that intensity.
you have to be like
never let in for a second.
And you've just got
to stomp on their head.
[man] Hey. John!
[McEnroe]   And you
can't enjoy the moment.
And I hated that.
[applause]
[McEnroe]   A lot of times
when I was in the midst
of some meltdown.
it felt like I was thinking
a funny thing at first.
Excuse me?
[umpire]
That was a good but...
You can't be serious. man.
You cannot be serious!
That ball was on the line!
Chalk flew up!
It was clearly in!
How can you possibly
call that out?
How many you gonna miss?
And I'd end up
saying the asshole thing.
You guys are the absolute pits
of the world. do you know that?
Which was really stupid.
[umpire]
I'm going to award a point
against you. Mr. McEnroe.
[crowd cheers]
[McEnroe]   You just made
the whole thing blow up.
And they can forget
about last year.
We're not going to have a point
taken away because this guy
is an incompetent fool.
do you know that?
That's what he is.
That's what he is. right?
I'm back to square one.
[umpire]   Game.
set and match to McEnroe.
[interviewer]
Who's the player that you least
like umpiring?
McEnroe.
[Fleming]   He didn't get along
with the British mentality.
the establishment. if you
will and he went berserk.
[McEnroe] Oh. no! No!
[Hynde]   In the UK. there's
an unpleasant obsession
with class.
[Thatcher] Where there
is discord.
may we bring harmony.
[Hynde]   He appealed to people
because he was a badass
and people liked to see
something kick off.
[Borg]   He was going
through a tough time.
The media was after him.
[reporter]   The Solicitor
General for Scotland
was reported to have
called McEnroe's behavior
selfish. arrogant. vulgar.
self-interested. and cheap.
Those were McEnroe's
good points.
[reporter]
The Wimbledon press got
into a fracas into questions
over McEnroe's personal life.
Don't point
your finger at me. mister.
[McEnroe]
I was changing tennis.
This sport's not gonna
be the upper class sport. man.
Useless fucking umpires
in this place!
[crowd booing]
If I ever win
this fucking tournament
I am never coming back.
What did I say. umpire? Tell me.
Please tell me. Please tell me!
[reporter]   McEnroe is two
victories away from a possible
replay of last year's
Wimbledon final against Borg.
[reporter]   The management of
Wimbledon fine McEnroe $1.500
and threaten him
with suspension
from the tournament.
[woman] Hey. McEnroe.
[McEnroe]   The way
that they're putting me
through the wringer.
you feel like
you're a piece of meat.
[reporter]   If you believe
what you read
in the more enthusiastic
British dailies.
John McEnroe
is the main threat to decency
on this island.
[McEnroe]   The only way
that it could get better
was if I won.
[umpire]   Game set and match
to McEnroe.
[interviewer]   You've used words
like. "incompetent fool.
lousy line judges."
do you stick with that?
The ones that were
on the court today?
-[interviewer] Hmm.
-Yeah.
[interviewer] You stay with it?
[scoffs] What do you want me
to do. retract my statement?
[phone ringing]
[McEnroe Sr.]   John created
a lot of controversy.
It was troubling to us.
but the idea
that you could raise someone
and make them
into a John McEnroe
is just nonsense.
That has to be there.
[Billie Jean]   If you want
to be number one.
you have to win Wimbledon.
it's very simple.
If you say. okay.
you can only win one major...
that's the one.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   It is the
ultimate for a tennis player.
I still had to prove
I can win it.
And then I can really tell
them to fuck themselves.
[Bud]   John McEnroe
always thinks he can win.
Nice guys don't win
in this game.
It's a sport for killers.
This is kill or be killed.
[umpire]   Game to McEnroe.
[Bud]
For millions of dollars.
[crowd cheers]
[singer]
Welcome to the machine
[crowd cheering]
[man speaking indistinctly]
[singer]
Where have you been?
It's all right...
[Bud]   That's what McEnroe
is showing you.
I want it.
I'm grabbing it.
It's mine.
Try and stop me.
[crowd cheering]
[singer]
Welcome to the machine
[crowd cheering]
[Bud]
Is he violence personified
on the tennis court?
He's a genius
who worries people
because he's a reflection
of the times we live in.
[crowd cheers]
[Bud]   Harsh. violent times.
We can see in him.
what society has done to us.
Life. as in tennis today.
you're either a winner.
or a loser.
[crowd cheering]
[commentator]   He got it!
It's all over at 5.29!
McEnroe has taken
the King's throne!
[McEnroe]   This incredible
pressure I put on myself.
This burden.
[dramatic music playing]
That moment was worth it.
[reporter]   The glory of his
singles victory at Wimbledon
is intertwined with the fuss
over the Champions Dinner
at the end
of the Wimbledon tournament.
One Wimbledon official
is quoted as saying.
a place was saved
through the meal for McEnroe
who never showed.
[classical music playing]
[McEnroe]   Gotta admit perhaps
that I wasn't aware
of the tradition
of the dinner that night.
You know. I thought
like if actual friends
are gonna come over
and we're gonna party. man.
and we're gonna have
a great time...
or I'm gonna sit with a bunch
of stuffed shirts
and sit there and dance
with Martina Navratilova.
I think I'm gonna vote
for the other one.
Get up next morning.
walk out the door.
I'm like bleary-eyed.
like. hung over.
Whoa! There's. like.
ten paparazzi or God knows
how many people outside.
I'm like. "What?"
Uh-oh. [chuckles]
This may have been
a bigger deal than I thought.
My father said I'd be happy
to say a few words.
And they said
that if I didn't come
for the whole dinner.
that they respectfully
rescinded
my invitation to come.
A week later. they called
my parents to tell me
that I was not gonna be
granted membership
at the club.
Big fucking deal.
[crowd cheering]
[Hynde]   You can't be a badass
and not be rock 'n roll.
Watching him play tennis
must have been like
watching a rock band.
You never knew
what was gonna happen.
[Santana] We wanna play the
rock 'n roll national anthem
dedicated to Chuck Berry
who wrote it.
this is "Johnny B Goode"
to John McEnroe.
[rock music playing]
[Hynde]   He would always
come over to see me in London
because I always had pot
and he was a pothead.
And I'd say. "Hey.
what are you doing in town?"
and he'd say.
"Uh. it's a little thing
called Wimbledon.
you might have heard of it."
[McEnroe]   I was having
the time of my life.
I don't remember a lot
about the evenings
that I spent with Vitas.
You just spent time in a room
with Keith Richards
and Ronnie Wood.
You want to have a hit
on a joint?
Sure!
[Meatloaf]   I'm tellin' you.
man. that was unbelievable.
How many tennis players
out there been like.
step out on court
with John McEnroe
and Vitas Gerulaitis?
[Richards]   I was backstage
with John somewhere.
I threw out the idea to him
that if you're used
to working crowds.
you seem to have
something in common.
even though you're doing
actually something
totally different
for that crowd.
You're giving
and also receiving
on a different level.
Exchange of energy.
I'll tell you again. McEnroe!
[laughter]
[Richards]
John knows what I mean.
He can sense a crowd.
And also he did it with flair.
Who doesn't mind yelling
at an umpire. man?
It's like. you know. yeah.
[rock music playing]
[MTV interviewer]
Tennis stars on the set. Yes.
Vitas Gerulaitis
and John McEnroe.
we're gonna be talking with
them after this short break.
[McEnroe]   These days.
athletes are doing
performance enhancing drugs.
We were doing
performance detracting drugs.
That's to me the difference.
[MTV interviewer]
You both play guitar. right?
Uh. yeah. that's right.
-Yeah he plays solid rhythm.
-Solid rhythm.
Does it make sense? No.
If you're trying to be the
best player that ever lived.
I mean. putting smoke
in your mouths
-probably not the best thing.
-[man] Okay.
[man] Rolling tape...
[chuckles]
Hi. I'm John McEnroe.
You're watching MTV.
Music television.
The channel
I've been waiting for.
Criticize me if you want
for doing that
and saying he fucked up
but don't sit there
and go. hey.
he did cocaine or marijuana
therefore he won. bullshit!
More energy?
Hi!
I'm John McEnroe!
[man] Here we go.
Stay quiet please. folks!
[McEnroe]   You know.
it's hardly like. yeah. man.
if you smoke some marijuana.
it's good for you.
But maybe it's good
so you could appreciate
your life a little more
for a period of time.
[man] Right.
that was real nice. one more.
One more?
I. you know. I'll try it.
I mean. I'd rather just do
the other. you know.
leave it with the other one.
[man] Oh.
we can do another one.
you want to do another one?
Well. I don't really want
to do another one either.
I think the first one
looks good.
so I don't see any reason
to do another one.
[man] There is none.
That's fine.
[man] That's it. Okay.
Thank you. That's it.
[narrator]   In all of sport.
there is no greater pressure
on an athlete than that
on the number one competitor
in an individual sport.
In men's tennis.
the last decade.
that pressure has been focused
on Bjorn Borg.
[Borg]   The cost is enormous.
[man] You don't work out
as a tennis player.
you know. you could become
a male model. huh?
[Borg]   Everybody wants
a piece of you.
you have to live with that.
Sometimes you just want
to lock yourself in a room
and don't go out.
[reporter]   With all
his past accomplishments
and domination.
there is one crown
that has eluded Bjorn Borg.
The United States Open.
His desire for that title
borders on obsession.
[Borg]   I'm in the Final again.
Playing John.
Going into that match.
I have death threats.
[dramatic music playing]
[Borg]
It's a terrible feeling.
That's all of the fame.
Everybody's after you.
I felt...
-I'm done.
-[crowd cheering]
[commentator]
The prospect of another match
between the two top players
on the world
generates excitement
unmatched in tennis.
[crowd cheering]
[commentator]   Got it.
[Borg]
Then I miss an easy point.
I'm steaming inside.
[crowd cheers]
[Borg]   But I don't want
to show that.
[dramatic music playing]
[commentator]   Oh. what a shot!
[Borg]   I've been playing
for so many years.
[dramatic music playing]
[Borg]
I had enough of this game.
[umpire]
Game. set and match McEnroe!
[crowd cheering]
[official]   Runner-up Bjorn Borg
is truly a great champion.
we are sorry
he is unable to be here
to receive
his runner up award but--
[crowd booing]
[McEnroe]   You can't express
the feelings you have
when someone
who you're friends with
and is your greatest rival
has just walked out
of the stadium.
That's the last major
he ever played.
It was an absolute
fucking tragedy.
[male reporter]
Bjorn Borg announced today
that at age 26.
he is retiring from tennis.
[female reporter]
Bjorn Borg has played...
[male reporter]   Bjorn Borg
is expected to announce
that he has quit
because he can no longer give
his sport 100%.
[male reporter]   Well. he just
doesn't want to face McEnroe
and the kid's coming up.
[male reporter]   The five-time
Wimbledon champion
no longer has
the fighting spirit.
[Borg]
I knew deep inside that...
this was my last match.
I left the court
and went through the kitchen.
Went to the car.
I was relieved.
I could have many more years
in tennis
but for myself. I felt. uh.
I felt relief.
I felt calm. I felt...
I did something good.
[McEnroe]   Uh. I was like. what.
by the way.
what are you gonna do?
Except sit on your ass?
I'd say to him.
why the hell did you quit
when you were 25?
Even if there is
a lot of shit going on?
"Someday you'll understand."
he'd say.
[Borg]   John said.
you have to continue.
Then I said to John.
maybe one day
you will understand.
Tennis is not
everything in life.
[interviewer]   I mean.
you've got all of this drive
and this energy
that is part of you.
where do you put that now?
[Billie Jean]
John broke his spirit.
John was looking forward
to playing
a lot of matches against Borg.
What a letdown at the Open
to see the guy
go wheee. right out.
that's it.
[McEnroe]   When you're working
your way to the top.
it's easier and more fun
than when you get there
and you're looking
over your shoulder
and trying to stay there.
It felt sort of empty.
[reporter]   If you've never seen
John McEnroe in person
play a game of tennis.
do yourself a favor.
Give yourself a treat.
He is really something
out there.
[crowd cheering]
[reporter]   John McEnroe
took the wheel
of a runaway steam roller
that is flattening
all opposition at Wimbledon.
I felt like
I could beat anybody.
-[crowd cheering]
-[reporter]   All right.
Both hands in the air.
John McEnroe.
1983 Wimbledon champion.
[man]   He's the best player
in the world.
and the best player
in the world has burdens
which no other player has.
[interviewer]   Every week
I pick up the paper
you're in Tokyo
and then you're in Australia
and then you're in France
and you're in Italy
and you're playing Davis Cup.
It is unbelievable
the amount of travel.
Yeah. I've been on a plane
for 30 hours.
I figured. you know.
at least you guys
would leave me alone
at this point.
I just don't think
it was a very happy existence.
[McEnroe Sr.]
He's not out on the court
having a good time.
he's out on the court
playing to win.
-[BBC commentator]   That's it!
-[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   I had the best year
in the history of tennis
the men's side. in 1984.
[interviewer]
Yes. you are number one!
I don't think anybody
can dispute that.
[McEnroe]   I was number one
in the world for four years.
I'm the greatest player
that's ever played.
Why does it not feel
that amazing?
A year would go by.
when you coming back?
I wanted him back.
I didn't even care if I went
to number two in the world.
I'd rather have him back.
Pressure helped me succeed.
but made things
tortuous at times.
Again. you've made
a clear mistake
on break point. for God sakes.
Is that not a big enough point
for you to screw up?
How much bigger a point
can you screw it up with?
Answer my question.
The question. jerk!
Well. that's two
different questions.
[laughter]
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   People could see
that I was melting down
and losing it.
You're pathetic.
do you know that?
But I do. Makes me sick!
I'm like a ghost.
[siren blaring]
[Fleming]
In '84 he was invincible.
He hadn't lost a match
the whole year.
He beat everybody like a drum.
He wins Paris that year.
people are starting
to talk about him
as the greatest of all time.
[dramatic music playing]
[Fleming]   In the first 12 days
of the French...
rainy. cloudy. Just cold.
Until the Final.
The day before. I said.
all right I'm coming.
I'm coming. um. let's--
we're gonna-- I'm coming
for the party. you know?
Show up in Paris.
an hour or two
before the match starts.
90 degrees.
[car honking]
[indistinct chatter]
[Fleming]   It went from
arctic to jungle
in half a day.
Not a cloud in the sky.
Hot. Hot.
[crowd cheering]
[McEnroe]   I don't like
to look back very much.
That just tears you up.
[US commentator]
Game and set to McEnroe.
He's up two sets 6-3. 6-2.
[McEnroe]   Any time
I have a nightmare...
[indistinct chatter]
[McEnroe]   ...it's right back
to that match.
[indistinct chatter]
[grunts]
I'm hypersensitive
to everything.
[buzzing]
[indistinct radio chatter]
[McEnroe]
Especially on a tennis court.
[slurps]
[camera clicks]
[man] Hey...
[commentator]
Lendl has fought back to win
the last two sets 6-4. 7-5.
[McEnroe]   I've been around
the game long enough.
I can watch
and I can see other players
that have two opponents.
Themselves
and whoever they're playing.
-Are you afraid of him?
-[umpire] No.
So. don't do everything
in his favor. okay?
[dramatic music playing]
[grunts]
[indistinct radio chatter]
Shut up!
-[grunts]
-[crowd cheers]
[McEnroe]   I get up.
I look back.
I see myself.
I have nothing.
[crowd cheers]
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]
It felt like I was doomed.
[crickets chirping]
[McEnroe]   My anxiety.
it hurt me.
There's something
clearly wrong.
I gotta get away.
[reporter]
Tennis star John McEnroe
and the actress Tatum O'Neal
have finally made
their love match official.
They married
at a private ceremony
in New York State last night
just nine weeks
after the birth of their son.
[indistinct chatter]
[McEnroe]   I didn't want
to turn into a person
that had to just spend
the rest of their life
like. winning at any cost.
I thought
this was absolutely perfect.
You know. someone that got it.
That understood what
it was like to go through
this microscope in a way
at a young age.
[thunder rumbling]
[dramatic music playing]
[Kevin]   He had taken
that sabbatical from tennis.
Even the highest success
wasn't really providing
the kind of happiness
that he was hoping for.
[Emily]   She was used
to being in the spotlight.
Kevin being on the cover
of   People
and it was like them two
and their new son
and. I think that--
That's crazy
to think of right now.
Isn't that wild?
They were superstars together.
[inaudible]
[Kevin]   He found true love.
It was both
beautiful and painful.
[Tatum] It's a boy.
we know it's a boy. Sean.
[Kevin]   My mom was 23
or four with two kids.
That must have been a lot.
[McEnroe]   We were kids.
I thought we were adults.
Your job. and obligation.
and absolutely what I wanted.
was to be there for them
and to make them feel loved.
I thought
I could handle it all.
was all gonna be beautiful
and I was gonna be number one
in the world again.
[Fleming]   His life had
been so compartmentalized.
he had everything
in the right order
and the right percentages.
My mouth hurts.
[crowd applause]
[Fleming]   And suddenly.
he has this relationship
that enveloped everything.
[McEnroe] Are we okay--
are we okay here?
[Fleming]
It was like a tsunami.
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   The two of us
together seemingly
was a lot more interesting
than I realized
that we were gonna be.
That led to way more attention
on my personal life
than my tennis.
[Hynde]   The tabloids are rough.
Are they gonna stand
outside your flat?
Yeah.
Yeah. that's the deal.
But John got all irritated
and they just thrive on that.
[reporter]   The reporter found
himself forced backwards
over a sofa claiming
he'd been grabbed
by the throat
resulting in a torn collar.
He went there with the
intention of starting something
so I you know moved him
to the side and then
suddenly it's now.
I've assaulted the guy.
He's physically beat up.
I'm gonna go take
a shit in there.
do you wanna
take a picture of that?
Oh. no. no.
[reporter]   McEnroe spat
at a photographer.
who promptly spat back.
[McEnroe]
It went from bad to worse.
Having to cut a deal
with paparazzi
so that there's not
as many around.
[dramatic music playing]
[commentator]   This would be
the earliest exit
for John McEnroe ever
in the US Open.
[interviewer]
How do you assess
a year and a half
on the comeback trail?
[McEnroe]   That it has been
a dismal failure.
A bad nightmare.
[reporter]   Moaning John McEnroe
was blasted
out of Wimbledon yesterday
and blamed everybody
but himself.
[McEnroe]   What have I done?
I didn't bring Tatum with me.
What did I do to deserve
what I got this year?
[man] You didn't even laugh
at that. John.
[Kevin]   As their
relationship became rockier.
he had more troubles
on the court.
[Billie]   That Tatum period
was really rough.
He went through
some tough times.
I think he went
through drugs.
[McEnroe]   Cocaine.
let's just say
that it didn't help.
I have myself
to blame for that.
I'm not gonna sit here
and blame her for that.
[reporter]   A man
with a London accent
rang a newspaper warning.
"Don't let John McEnroe
go on court today
or he will be assassinated."
[McEnroe]
I can't get away from it.
[interviewer]
How's the press going too far
for John McEnroe...
[reporter]
This morning's report were...
[indistinct chatter]
[McEnroe]
The plan was to get better.
Do you think for one second
I wanted to get worse?
Never be the same player?
It's safe to say that
wasn't a very good feeling.
[umpire]   Code violation.
unsportsmanlike conduct.
warning. Mr. McEnroe.
I can't believe this!
It was absurd what I did
to sabotage myself.
From the 37 psychologists
and psychiatrists I've seen.
through court orders
and my own free will.
never been able to figure
that one out.
Oh. obviously your parents
did something.
No.
That's not--I can't blame
them for. uh--
if you think
that's why I. like.
some lunatic on the court.
that's not the case.
I choked. how's that?
That's probably the top one.
That's the bottom line.
Maybe I showed some human
frailty that people show
when times where you're like.
how did that guy melt down?
[Kevin]   One time he told me
about his anger.
It's a lot easier
to get angry
than it is to cry.
Andy Warhol had painted
a painting of the two of them.
They were fighting
and so I drew a moustache
on the Andy Warhol painting!
-No!
-That's true. yeah.
And I remember
the uproar and me
like putting all my stuff
in a little backpack
and being like
I'm out of here.
I'm five years old.
I'm gonna hit it.
I'll catch you guys
down the road.
[McEnroe]   There's times
we could communicate.
but it's often times
whereas can't even talk.
I don't think infidelity helps.
I believe that was both of us.
To me. that's like
the beginning of the end.
Or the end of the end.
Couldn't you see anything?
That cost me the damn set.
because of that!
The set was over!
[bleep] you!
[bleep]
It's quite embarrassing.
You know.
it's something that. uh.
I hope I don't have to see
too many more times.
[Emily]   Seeing that growing up
was very confusing.
As a kid. it was strange
to feel like
maybe you could be
celebrated for being angry
and then realizing
no. you can't.
Do me a favor.
shove that mic [bleep]
[interviewer]   When your sons
Sean and Kevin grow up
and see these scenes. what
are you going to tell them?
[McEnroe]
That's something that. uh.
I've thought about quite often.
I haven't come up with.
you know.
exactly what
I will talk about but...
if they're like their father.
they'll learn
from their mistakes.
Can you say that?
Can you say hello
Grandpa and Grandma?
[interviewer]   Is it tough
to have your family
so involved in your career?
Sometimes do you wish
you just had a father?
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   He put a great deal
of pressure and perfectionism
upon himself.
And he expected
the same in return.
And in his mind at least.
he wasn't getting it.
Every time we talked.
it was tennis. tennis. tennis.
And I became a father
and I thought
wouldn't it be nice
if I had like
more of a father-son
relationship
with my father.
I can get any Tom. Dick
or Harry to be my manager.
Hey. listen. you know. I'd--
I'm gonna try these
other couple of people.
Because I wanna have
a better relationship
with you off the court.
He didn't say anything.
he looked at me
like he was
in a state of shock.
Like. what?
It's actually the opposite
of what you think. Dad.
it's actually because
I love you.
not because I don't love you.
He didn't take that too well.
He took that terrible.
It was like
I stabbed him in the back.
He didn't want to retire.
He lost his identity.
And it affected my mom
and I was upset about that.
I resented that
and makes you wonder
about knowing
when to let it go.
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   I hadn't won a major
in seven years.
Seemed like I was
so close so often.
that's why I kept
going back for more.
I just couldn't get it right.
You have to develop an edge
to be great at something.
Go out on an island
by yourself.
[applause]
[McEnroe]   Do whatever
it takes to win.
You always hear that.
You have to do whatever
it takes to win at any cost.
Is it all worth it...
in the end?
[screams]
[dramatic music playing]
[Kevin]   Him and my mother
were divorced
when I was six years old.
And there were times
in that process. a long.
sort of ugly divorce.
that. you know. you don't...
necessarily have your bearings
and I felt like
there were times
that maybe he was frustrated
that I sided with her.
My mother
wasn't well at the time.
She had some addiction issues
so I felt like I sort of
understood that and I just
wanted to protect her
and then we would fight
about that.
The worst thing
I ever said to him
is one time he said.
"At least I'm consistent."
he was talking about my mom
and he said.
"At least I'm consistent."
I said.
"Consistently an asshole."
And I remember his face
being really broken about it.
And I have a lot of regret
and shame around saying that.
I don't think
he'll ever regret
the time because of us...
and I think one of the saddest
things for me is.
in terms of real true love.
my mom really never met
anyone else.
John McEnroe?
He like John McEnroe?
My papa John.
Time has allowed for healing
and understanding
that my parents
are human beings.
I can understand...
what he went
through as well.
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   My kids saw me cry.
I didn't realize that
I was so out of it
that I was allowing myself
to be seen.
I took for granted
they could just deal with it.
I wish I was more. uh...
had a better feeling
of what they were feeling.
To sit here and dwell
on tennis matches.
it doesn't feel like...
as big a deal. you know.
as feeling. like.
"God. I fucked up.
you know. with my kids."
that's the worst feeling.
[phone ringing]
[McEnroe]   I was up
at a charity event
in the Bay area.
Someone came into
the locker room
right before I went
on the court.
They said that Vitas was dead.
[reporter]   He was one
of the best and most popular
tennis players of his time.
[reporter]
Forty-year-old Gerulaitis died
from carbon monoxide poisoning
at the weekend.
[McEnroe]
I just went totally numb.
[man] Can we get some room?
[McEnroe] I was heading
towards this potential...
cliff of some kind that...
hopefully I would have
figured out
before I'd have done
anything stupid.
It felt like a huge
turning point in my life.
[Dick Clark]   One of the finest
female vocalist in all of rock.
ladies and gentlemen
Scandal with Patty Smyth.
[applause]
[Patty]    I don't want to tame
Your animal style
You won't be caged
When they call the wild
Shootin' at the walls
Of heartache
Bang. bang
I am the warrior
Well
And heart to heart
You'll win
If you survive
The warrior
[Patty]   I met John
on Christmas Day.
He was only like
a year separated.
I was newly out of a pretty
rough relationship
and I wasn't interested.
But I would try to figure out
why is he so familiar to me?
I felt I knew him.
I could see him.
[McEnroe]
I was in a pretty lost state.
She happens to be someone
who's extremely good with
people that are struggling.
That takes a special
type of person.
The night Vitas passed away...
I called Patty up late.
[phone ringing]
[McEnroe]
Listen. can I come over?
[Patty]   John was driving.
he asked if he could come over
and I was. like. it's late...
and then he told me
about Vitas.
He didn't say.
"I don't wanna be alone."
he said...
[both]   I have a feeling
about you and me.
[McEnroe]   What Patty allowed me
to do was be myself.
I could be who I wanted to be.
It's nice to be able
to feel. like.
you're a team. like.
you don't have
that much in tennis.
[Patty] It's your Pops.
That's your popsicle.
I was raised by a single mom.
My father died
when I was a kid.
I had no blueprint.
He was like
"We are in this together
and it's you and me.
We're first."
[McEnroe]   It's good
to get second chances.
You don't always get them.
And this time.
it's all or nothing.
Love to me?
Love is um. hmm...
[Patty]   Love?
Well. there's so many
kinds of love.
Love is showing up.
Love is showing up
and you do...
you do what needs
to be done.
You know. to take on
his three kids.
I'm not sure that
a lot of people
would have done that.
It was challenging.
I thought I could just
mom them. you know.
into everything
being okay.
Didn't quite work.
I don't know
you just jump in the water
and you start swimming.
We're in Hawaii.
and I'm gonna marry your dad
in a week and a day.
What do you think?
[McEnroe] You're not
a bastard any more. Anna.
[Patty]   John in a way
is very straight
and very consistently there
and present.
I grew up in a completely
bohemian way.
Normal to me
was the brave new world.
Like this is like. wow!
You know like people do this?
You know. they like
do shit together
and they go to Parent/Teacher
conference together
and their-- you know.
like. it was all new.
[all]
Happy birthday to you!
[McEnroe]
Patty certainly caught me
at a time when I was lost.
And it's not like
I'm perfect now.
it's not like
I don't fuck up now. um.
and it's not like
I couldn't have been
a better dad
or any number of things.
But. at the same time.
I feel like all in all
I think... I sort of veered
into a much more of a direction
that allowed me to be me
and be comfortable with myself
in my own skin more
and appreciate like...
some people still know
who you are and...
they say nice things
and it's okay to feel good
about that.
You know. took me a while
to let that sink in
and enjoy that
so I'm hoping someone's
gonna say to me you know
something you're
a really good guitar player.
[laughs]
[Kevin]   If everyone in the room
is happy and smiling
that's what brings him joy.
That may have been
whether he liked it or not.
something he always wanted.
This quest for. like.
this moment where you know
he could look around
and be like.
"This is where I want to be."
[laughter]
-[woman] Oh. my God.
-[woman] Casual rough.
[woman] That looks so good.
-I'm--
-[McEnroe] Where's the damn
thousand island?
[laughter]
I couldn't tell!
Really gave you the turn. yeah.
-Yeah. me. too.
-You wanna split it
as I end up doing often?
You always worry if
you're too much like your dad.
Or not enough like him.
Whoa! Just slow down.
I can jump.
[McEnroe]   I wanna be more
affectionate than my father.
For whatever reason.
he wasn't capable of that.
But he was a good man at heart.
I know that
and he did a lot
of good things for me
so I try to just focus on that.
[woman] Okay.
You didn't say John senior.
did you?
[man] Do what?
You didn't say John senior.
did you?
[man] Aren't you not?
I'm sorry. sir.
Did you--
did you say John senior?
-[man] Yes.
-No. I'm not senior.
-he's junior.
-[man] Oh.
I thought that's what
you said I'm sorry.
-That's all right.
-[man] I'm sorry.
[McEnroe]
Life caught up to him.
It's just painful
to watch that.
Hey. your dad's
in the hospital.
You're just. what happened?
Oh. no. he just fell.
Never once said.
"Look. I have a problem.
I drink too much."
You know. wow. big surprise.
Go to rehab.
You gotta get it together.
I thought if there's one person
in the world
that he'd listen to it'd be me.
But it proved to be incorrect.
[Patty]   He kept going up
to see his father.
He was just in this bed.
[McEnroe]   He was at a hospice.
He was just hanging in there.
And I was sort of wishing
like he would say like
you know something.
I fucked up man near the end...
I don't know he just...
I don't know if he gave up.
I don't know what happened.
This is my dad at the end
sort of self-destructing.
This great man had
had so much success.
I walked out of there
and I was like
man. oh. man.
I can't believe this.
this guy is just
never gonna change.
I was like.
"You're not gonna do this. man.
You got to pull it together.
you know.
and just when you think
he's gonna make it.
he didn't make it.
[Patty]   I didn't know
that he kept going there.
He kept giving his father
the chance.
John really wanted him
to say I'm sorry.
And his father
didn't say anything.
Well. I felt bad for my mom
because she had sort of been
through this
torture chamber in a way
and. uh. she had watched him
lose his identity
and semi disintegrate.
And the next thing you know.
she's got stage four
stomach cancer.
I think the whole thing just
it took so much out of her.
Which made me mad
you know then I was mad
at my dad for a while so I...
that bothered me for--I mean
it bothers me in a way but.
because I think she could have
had ten more years
and then she had five months.
But they were together
for 59 years and you know
50 of them were great.
The last 10 wasn't so good.
There. well. that's pretty
good percentage.
That's about my winning
percentage of my career.
Eighty three percent.
Certain things
were never resolved.
But that doesn't mean
he didn't love me.
The oldest get it the toughest
as far as curfews. you know.
I'd look around
and he would be in the den.
I'd think I'd be in the clear
and then he'd be sitting
halfway up the stairs
waiting for me.
[McEnroe] Or sometimes
in the living room.
You're very proud of us.
right?
Of course. I'm proud.
That goes without saying.
Maybe it doesn't but listen.
I mean that's part of the deal.
you're responsible
for something.
you have to be
not quite as selfish.
which is a good thing for me
because I was getting rather
selfish in my young days.
maybe getting
a little bit too. whoa.
too big for my breeches so.
I thought it would be
an unbelievable--
it turned out to be a great
thing for me personally.
that I was able to become
and hopefully will remain
a father for many years.
uh. for the rest of my life.
Yeah. let's hope so yeah.
let's hope you don't outlive
every single one of us!
-Yeah!
-[laughter]
[Patty]   My daughters
are saying their friends like.
"Does your dad
yell all the time?"
That was so long ago.
But that's still
how they see him.
I'll tell you what though.
when he yells.
it's fucking scary! [laughs]
When he first yelled at me.
I like. oh. shit!
Like. "I'm out of here. dude"
and he's like what?
Because he's over it.
He just goes like. whaa!
And then he's like. fine
and I'm like.
so it took a minute
to get used to that.
Being a perfectionist
isn't a good thing.
Because it's never
being satisfied.
That First Grade report card.
he was beating himself up
already.
He was six.
I wish in a way that I had
been able to be with him
from the beginning.
[McEnroe] This is so right!
I feel...
[Patty]   This is the thing
that I've been thinking about
because I wanted
to write a song about this.
I married a bad boy...
who turned out
to be a really good man.
How about that?
[laughs]
[Borg]   John is one
of the greats in tennis.
He could do anything
with that tennis ball.
He had a lot of pressure
from people around him.
And he wanted to be perfect.
Sometimes we talk about it.
me and John.
We talk a lot
about families. kids.
not too much about tennis.
It's more important
for us to be happy in life.
[Patty]   He's got a very soft
part of him.
I don't know
if people see it that much.
But it's there. it's strong.
-[McEnroe shouts]
-[audience applause]
[Kevin]   I'm not sure he knows
how much what he used to say
I hold dear.
Being somebody
you can count on.
That is something
that I like really cherish.
It's unfortunate
that it took me so long.
I'm sorry I didn't listen more.
when I was younger.
I didn't understand.
And just thank you for trying.
You know.
-I can't follow that.
-[Kevin] No.
[McEnroe]   It's tricky
to maneuver this word "love".
As you get older.
it's opened me up
to being more easily say
those types of things.
I think I'm open for pretty
much anything at this point.
But I wanna be open for just
going off in the sunset. too.
if it turns out that way
and just living life.
[dramatic music playing]
[McEnroe]   I'm not at peace.
I don't think
I'd wanna be at total peace.
I don't even know
what that feels like.
Does that exist?
[upbeat music playing]
[audience cheering]
["Public Image"
by Public Image playing]
[singer]    You never listen to
A word that I said
You only seen me
For the clothes that I wear
Or did the interest go
So much deeper
It must have been
The color of my hair
The Public Image
What you wanted was
Never made clear
Behind the image was
Ignorance and fear
You hide behind
This public machine
You still follow
Same old scheme
John McEnroe's impact
on tennis has been incredible.
Without a doubt
one of the most charismatic
players in the history
of our sport
and one of the best players.
[singer]
Two sides to every story
Somebody had to stop me
I'm not the same
As when I began
I will not be treated
As property
[Djokovic]   He's someone
that I was looking up to.
when I was younger.
I love that he's still
in tennis.
Former world number one
in singles and doubles
and incredible commentator
that he is.
And you're generous.
you have a beautiful heart.
And as a competitor.
you're a bad boy!
[singer]
Two sides to every story
Somebody had to stop me
I'm not the same
As when I began
It's not a game
Of monopoly
Public Image
The Public Image
You got what you wanted
Belongs to me
My entrance
My own creation
My grand finale
My goodbye
Public Image
Goodbye
[rock music playing]